Intent2.0 (#1)
IntentSoftware/Docs: articles/references/concepts/stereotypes.md

# Stereotypes

## What is a Stereotype?

>Stereotype is a profile class which defines how an existing metaclass may be extended as part of a profile. It enables the use of a platform or domain specific terminology or notation in place of, or in addition to, the ones used for the extended metaclass.

_from: [uml-diagrams.org](https://www.uml-diagrams.org/stereotype.html)_

According to the quote from the UML Diagrams website, a stereotype defines in UML terms that a given Class will have additional meta-data (in a simplified way).

> Intent Architect has adopted this notation called `Stereotype` in order to apply additional meta-data on-top of existing Elements.

Author: ```suggestion
Intent Architect has adopted this notation called a `Stereotype` in order to allow specifying of additional arbitrary meta-data on-top of any existing Elements.

Template authors can then have logic in their template which can change its output or behaviour depending on the content or presence of particular stereotypes.
```

> ## What does Stereotypes look like?

Author: ```suggestion
## What do Stereotypes look like?
```

> Stereotypes are quite flexible in how they appear. You can have a visible indicator on the Element that you work on or it might be only a field where you need to supply additional information in the form of a text field or the like.

Author: ```suggestion
Stereotypes in Intent Architect are intentionally able to be visually obvious so that users can quickly visually see that a particular element is configured in a particular way without having to dig into an element's details.

Intent Architect offers a lot of flexibility in how stereotypes can appear. They can use one of built in icons, or alternatively any custom image. Additionally, they have customizable display text, this text also supports JavaScript syntax allowing features such as inclusion of stereotype values or conditional display or text content.
```

> ![Visible stereotype](images/stereotypes/visible-stereotype.png)

Author: I think we should move away from using the down arrows in these pictures, it looks like it could be a UI element for collapsing the element. Perhaps we have a letter block, or something that really just looks like an icon from font awesome.

> Notice in this image the two downward arrows. That is a stereotype.

Author: ```suggestion
The ____ icon at the top right of class shows that a stereotype is applied.
```

![Properties](images/stereotypes/person-class-properties-stereotype.png)

When you inspect the properties of the `Person` Class/Element, you will notice the there is a section called `Role` with the two downward arrows next to it. This is a stereotype that we have applied.
Also, notice that it contains a filed called `Type` and it has a value that has been selected from a dropdown menu.

> You will begin to understand that Stereotypes allow developers to define their applications in more "domain specific" terms, rather than technical terms.

Author: ```suggestion
Because the stereotype has been applied to it, when you inspect the properties of the `Person` Class/Element, you will notice the there is a section called `Role` (which is the name of the stereotype) with the ____(icon)____ next to it.

Under the `Role` section, there is a field called `Type` and its value has been selected from a dropdown menu.

Stereotypes allow developers to define their applications in more "domain specific" terms, rather than being constrained to default field names in Intent Architect.
```

>[!TIP]
>This is the power of Stereotypes. Instead of having a developer bogged down with how the technical things work under the hood and trying to interpret from source code what the business function is supposed to do, Intent Architect allows Module creators and developers to define their own language of how the application is supposed to look like with the help of stereotypes. This would help business analysts and developers to scan the models quickly to infer what is going on, while the Modules would interpret the Stereotypes to generate the source code accordingly.

## How do I get Stereotypes?

> Stereotypes are typically created by Module creators, so when you install a new Module for Intent Architect, it typically comes bundled with a set of Stereotypes that a developer can use to describe their application in a richer fashion.

Author: ```suggestion
Because Modules and Templates need to be built to understand and react to particular stereotypes, they are typically created by the module authors and are automatically made available when the module is added to the application.
```

> You may however create your own Stereotype Definition from within Intent Architect. Please note however, it will not be used by any of the Modules that you have installed in order to generate any source code. You may however like to add some comments or indicators with the use of Stereotypes that would give developers some visual and informational cues as to what to do or understand about the model they are working in.

Author: ```suggestion
You can also add Stereotypes yourself if you just want to add additional visual information to your meta-data. While these stereotypes won't have any effect on templates or modules, they can still be useful in being able to document or communicate concepts for yourself or other developers on your team.
```

![New Stereotype Definition](images/stereotypes/new-stereotype-definition.png)

To create a custom Stereotype, create a new Stereotype definition.

![New Stereotype Definition Role](images/stereotypes/new-stereotype-definition-role.png)

![Properties](images/stereotypes/new-stereotype-definition-role-properties.png)

Name|Description
-|-
Name|Name of your Stereotype
Targets|Which elements are the Stereotype applicable for?
Icon|A nice visual representation of your Stereotype
Display Icon|Should the icon be displayed in the modeler?
Auto Add|Should this Stereotype be automatically added on the creation of a new element found in your `Targets` list?
Display Text|Writes out text on the element where the stereotype is applied and with the use of expressions, display certain information about the stereotype for that element. An example would be for Web API where an operation would need to have a POST/GET/etc verb and adding a `HTTP` stereotype will render on the screen what kind of `HTTP` verb is required.

> Id|This is for debugging and troubleshooting purposes.

Author: Seeing this makes me agree with Gareth that we should make have this kind of data a little hidden away. We certainly don't want people trying to find stereotypes by ID in templates.

We need to open an issue about this.

> Notice that this is not all. Stereotypes can also have fields assigned to them.

Author: ```suggestion

Stereotypes can also have any number properties added to them. These are essentially additional fields which can be changed by a user to configure an applied stereotype.
```

![Fields](images/stereotypes/new-stereotype-definition-role-properties-fields.png)

|Name|Description|Type Description
|-|-|-
|Name|The name of the field|
|Type|The type of field you're working with.|
| |Kind of Types that there are:|
| | * String|Single-line piece of text
| | * Text|Multi-line text
| | * Number|An integer number
| | * Boolean|True / False
| | * Options|Create your own options that can be selected
| | * Lookup Type|Specify the type of elements that can be looked up and there will be a dropdown list of all those items

> | | * Lookup Internal|Not sure. TODO

Author: We should resolve this before merge, @garethbaars, can you just add a comment here on what this is?

Reviewer: Yes, would be great

## How do I apply Stereotypes?

> Adding stereotypes are very simple. Right click on an Element and select `Add Stereotype`.

Author: ```suggestion
To apply a stereotype to an element, simply right click on it and select the `Add Stereotype` option.
```
